Project Gutenberg's Thrills of a Bell Boy, by Samuel Ellsworth Kiser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Thrills of a Bell Boy

Author: Samuel Ellsworth Kiser

Illustrator: John Tinney McCutcheon

Release Date: March 18, 2018 [EBook #56783]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THRILLS OF A BELL BOY ***




Produced by ellinora,, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









                         THRILLS OF A BELL BOY




------------------------------------------------------------------------






                      [Illustration: Frontispiece]




------------------------------------------------------------------------






                              THRILLS OF A
                                BELL BOY

                                   By

                         Samuel Ellsworth Kiser

               Author of “Love Sonnets of an Office Boy,”
                    “Ballads of the Busy Days,” etc.

                             Illustrated by

                           John T. McCutcheon


                    [Illustration: Publisher’s Logo]


                                Chicago
                            Forbes & Company
                                  1906




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            Copyright, 1904
                      BY THE SATURDAY EVENING POST

                                -------

                            Copyright, 1906
                          BY FORBES & COMPANY




                Colonial Press: Electrotyped and Printed
                by C. H. Simonds & Co., Boston, U. S. A.




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              THRILLS OF A
                                BELL BOY




                                   I.


         GEE! There’s a call from seven-forty-eight—
           That’s Miss Le Claire; she wants some ice, I’ll bet;
           She stars in “Mrs. Middleton’s Regret.”
         And when you mention peaches—say, she’s great!
         If I could marry her I guess I’d hate
           To have to do it—nit! I’d go and get
           A plug hat and a fur-trimmed coat and let
         The guy that’s managin’ her, pay the freight.

         They say she gets a hundred dollars per;
           I’d like to draw that much a year or two.
           They’d know I’d been around when I got through.
         I wish the dude that comes here after her
         Was in my place and me in his—I’d stir
           Things up around this town. I wouldn’t do
           A thing but buy her everything I knew
         She didn’t have but might be wishin’ fer.

         She rung fer me to get some stamps, and when
           I took them up she says, “Just wait a bit.”
           She put one on a note and handed it
         To me to mail—and he come in just then
         And grabbed the thing—I’ve heard of crazy men,
           And I know when it’s up to me to quit:
           She had him goin’ groggy when I lit,
         But, blame the luck, they’ve made it up again.




                                  II.


           IF I could have my choice I wouldn’t be
           The main guy of a kingdom—nix fer me.
             I’d only wish that I could be as great
             As one of these gay boys from up the State
           Imagines that we think he is when he
             Tilts back his hat and lights his cigarette
             And does the pouter-pigeon act; I’d let
           Them have their thrones if I could be as grand
             As these boys think they are when they “run down”
           On business trips and let their chests expand
             And act as though they’d come to buy the town.


[Illustration]


           The minute one of them gets in he shies
           Around the telegraph girl, makin’ eyes
             And wantin’ to know what it costs to send
             Ten words to Saugatuck or Brady’s Bend,
           Or dictates to the shorthand girl and tries
             To make her think he’s Mike from Up-the-Crick—
             It’s easy work to spot these Johnnies quick:
           They try to mash the chambermaids up-stairs,
             And buzz the news-stand lady, and I s’pose
           They think that we all think they’re millionaires—
             Hello! There that sweet little actress goes.




                                  III.


          I WENT to see the show last night, the one
          She’s playing in, you know, but all the fun
            I thought I’d have was spoiled, confound the luck,
            I bought a forty-cent bouquet to chuck
          Down at her when the second act was done.
            I got a seat in front, all right, and, oh!
            How grand she looked away down there below!
          I thought of angels every time she’d look
            Up at the gallery—but when I let
          My flowers tumble down the villain took
            And give them to the putty-faced soubrette!


[Illustration]


           I wish I was the hero of the play
           She’s actin’ in and had the chance to lay
             Her head agin my buzzom every night
             And knock the villain down and hold her tight—
           I wouldn’t ask to have a cent of pay.
             And when she’d look up at me sweet and proud
             I’d feel so glad I’d have to yell out loud:
           I’ll bet the knock I give the villain when
             I come to rescue her would make him grunt.
           And when she wound her arms around me, then—
             Oh, blame it, there’s Old Morton howlin’ “Front!”




                                  IV.


          I DON’T feel like I used to feel no more;
            It seems as though I’d like to go away
            From where the racket’s goin’ on all day,
          And have her with me there, and she’d be sore
          At that rich dude who meets her at the door
            Back by the stage when she’s got through the play:
            I wish that she’d get sweet on me and say
          She never knew what lovin’ was before.

          I’ve got a tooth-brush now, and every night
            I wash my neck and ears: I don’t intend
            To chew tobacco any more, nor spend
          My change fer cigarettes; her teeth are white,
          And if she seen that mine were, too, she might
            Be liable to love me. Every time
            She looks at me it kind of seems that I’m
          All full of something tickel-ish and light.


[Illustration]


           I’d like it if I knew some way to make
             My ears stay closer to my head and not
             Stick out the way they do, as though they’d got
           Unfastened and hung loose. I wish I’d wake
           To-morrow so good-lookin’ it would break
             Her heart unless I’d take her on the spot;
             And I could lick that dude if he got hot
           And made rough house when she’d give him the shake.

           If I could go away with her to where
             There wasn’t anybody else at all,
             And we could set around all day or loll
           Beside the cricks and never have to care
           When bells would ring, and all around us there
             The posies would be growin’ sweet and tall,
             I’d never mind if it was spring or fall—
           But still I s’pose she couldn’t live on air.




                                   V.


           I THINK I’ll chuck this job and go and try
           To be a supe with her, and by and by
             Get speakin’ parts to play, and then—who knows?—
             Be leadin’ man, at last, and wear dude clo’s.
           I’d drink champagne whenever I was dry,
             And have a chance to travel up and down
             Around the country, seein’ every town,
           And after every act they’d call fer me;
             All week I’d only work two afternoons,
           And nearly everywhere I went I’d see
             My picture in the windows of saloons.

           I’d have a stage name that was grand to hear—
           I think I’d make it Reginald De Vere—
             Gee! Wouldn’t that loom up great on the bills?
             They’d never know they cheered fer Eddie Mills
           When I would get the signal to appear.
             I’d give her all the beautiful bouquets
             The girls would send to me at matinées,
           And when the show was over crowds would stand
             Outside to watch fer me and her and stare
           When we come out, and I would take her hand
             And lead her to our carriage, waitin’ there.


[Illustration]




                                  VI.


        I WENT up-stairs, this morning, when she rung—
          I guess she must of just got out of bed—
          It seemed to me her nose looked kind of red;
        They was a little wad of hair that hung
        Down in a pigtail on her back; she brung
          A telegram out to the door, and said:
          “Well, get a move—good Heavens, are you dead?”
        Somehow she didn’t seem to look so young.

        I can’t help kind of wonderin’ to-day
          What made her look so queer; it seems as though
          There’s something that is gone. I’d like to know
        If all the ones that’s beautiful when they
        Get on their riggin’ and are fixed up gay
          Ain’t much but framework when they’ve gone at night
          And safely locked themselves in out of sight
        And laid what ain’t growed on to them away.

        When me and Mike, the porter, were alone
          I got to tellin’ him about my thoughts—
          Mike’s had two wives, and so, of course, knows lots.
        He told me in a kind of sollum tone:
        “Me boy, a woman cr-rathure’s like a shtone—
          At laste some women ar-re—Whin dr-ressed they’re foine,
          But whin they ain’t ye’ll ha-ardly see a soign
        Av beauty that ye’d ta-ake to be their own.”


[Illustration]




                                  VII.


          IT’S all off now. She’s gone out West somewhere—
          The papers say to South Dakota—there
            She’s got things fixed to get divorced, they claim.
            It seems that Mrs. Pickleham’s her name
          In private life, instead of Miss Le Claire.
            Her father runs a dray in Buffalo,
            That’s what the papers say: I s’pose they know.
          I wonder why it always has to be
            That everything you think is great before
          You know about it, when you get to see
            Just how it is don’t seem so grand no more?


[Illustration]


             I wish I had the forty cents I blew
             To get the bunch of posies what I threw
               At her that night. I had to gasp almost
               Whenever she’d look up. Gee! What a roast
             The boys would give me fer it if they knew.
               But still there ain’t no use of feelin’ bad;
               I got my money’s worth, fer I was glad,
             And every minute that you’re feelin’ gay
               About a thing that never can come true
             Is something that’ll not get took away;
               It’s in your system and belongs to you.




                                 VIII.


             THEY’VE give us a new operator here
               To take the telegrams; she’s pretty near
               A daisy, too. Her eyes are big and brown;
               And when she sets there kind of lookin’ down,
             As though she didn’t notice things, it’s queer
               The way I get to wishin’ I could go
               And save her from the clutches of some foe.
             She makes me feel as though I’d like to be
               A handsome man, about six foot, and strong,
             To take her in my arms and let her see
               That I was here protectin’ her from wrong.


[Illustration]


           The other day I talked to her a while:
           It seemed as though whenever she would smile
             I’d have a goneish feelin’ in my breast.
             She’d be a peach, no matter how she dressed,
           She’s got the other girls here beat a mile.
             The red that’s on her cheeks ain’t painted there,
             And she ain’t wearin’ no dead woman’s hair:
           I don’t blame homely women if they try
             To make themselves look fine, fer good looks pay—
           But hers is not the kind that they can buy—
             The beauty that she’s got grew there to stay.




                                  IX.


            ONCE, when her instrument was workin’ bad
              She jerked the thing and hit it with her fist
              And nearly broke her round, soft little wrist—
            I never s’posed that she could get so mad.
            When I told ma it seemed to make her glad.
              She says a girl that looks as nice as pie
              Sometimes has awful thoughts: I wonder why
            Ma’s always knockin’ so? It makes me sad.




                                   X.


          SOME people make me sick. They act as though
            They’d leased this hemisphere. See that boy there,
            The way he tilts his head up in the air
          And struts around so everybody’ll know
          He’s cut his second teeth. Now watch him go
            And ask about the telegrams. I’ll bet
            Nobody ever telegraphed him yet,
          Or if they did it’s comin’ mighty slow.

          When she was operatin’ yesterday
            He leaned against the railin’, lookin’ wise
            And spoilin’ blanks and makin’ goo-goo eyes.
          I wish he’d pay his bill and go away,
          Or that she’d slap his face for gettin’ gay.
            When fellows hang around a girl to buzz
            Her hours at a time the way he does
          I wonder how they think of things to say?

          Mike says he never seen a woman yet
            That hated men fer showin’ them they’d like
            To take them in their lovin’ arms and hike
          Away to where nobody else could get.
          Mike says it doesn’t seem to make them fret
            When men get gone on them—I guess I’ll strike
            Out bold, because it must be so, fer Mike
          He’s had two wives, and knows a lot, you bet.

          There goes that dude again, confound the luck!
            I wish he’d get a telegram that said
            Some chap was comin’ here to punch his head,
          And he’d fergit how sweet she was, and duck:
          Mike says that when a fellow shows he’s struck
            A woman hardly ever raises Ned
            Or seems to get to wishin’ she was dead—
          Gee whiz! he’s went and give her chin a chuck.




                                  XI.


          THE Johnny’s went away that got so brash;
          I let his blamed old satchel fall and smash
            When him and me was goin’ out the door;
            His razor and his brush rolled on the floor,
          Mixed with his nightshirt and some other trash.
            He’d just smiled back at her and raised his lid;
            I’d hate to get let down the way he did:
          She laughed, and all the rest let out a whoop—
            I never seen a guy so mad before;
          He got his things together with a swoop—
            I guess he’ll never be our guest no more.

          I s’pose I lost a tip, but I don’t care,
          I’d rather have the chance fer gettin’ square;
            What good is havin’ money, anyway,
            If havin’ it don’t keep you feelin’ gay
          Nor make you push your chest out in the air?
            I snuck away, out by the barber shop,
            And laughed so hard I couldn’t seem to stop:
          Mike says that every laugh you ever laugh
            Is something that you’re richer fer, and so
          I gained about eight dollars and a half—
            They called me down and nearly bounced me, though.




                                  XII.


          IF I would get to be a millionaire
            And didn’t have to work or anything,
            I’d go and buy a dimun’ stud and ring
          And open up a swell hotel somewhere
          And be head clerk myself, and have my hair
            All curled and fixed like Morton’s is, and fling
            On agony as though I’d be a king
          And had a throne behind the counter there.

          The guy that owns this joint ain’t got no style:
            He wears his whiskers down around his neck:
            I’ll bet that I’d have shiners by the peck
          If I was in his place and had his pile.
          When guests come in he don’t put on a smile
            And get to lookin’ chesty and say “Front”
            As though he owned the earth: he leaves that stunt
          Fer Morton, who can beat him out a mile.


[Illustration]




                                 XIII.


             I WISH somebody’d kick me through a fence;
             I must be gettin’ dotty; I’m so dense
               I couldn’t see half through an iron gate;
               Why, any one could string me while you wait;
             No wonder Morton says I’m shy of sense.
               A man arrived here yesterday forenoon
               Who seemed to be a fighter, and as soon
             As ever I had spotted him I flew
               And grabbed his satchel and got useful. Say,
             His clo’s were great, he had on dimun’s, too—
               I picked him fer a winner right away.


[Illustration]


            It wasn’t tips I thought of, understand:
            I hoped that mebby I could touch his hand;
              I brought him pens and ink and things and stood
              Around to be as useful as I could
            And let him see I thought that he was grand.
              I’d like to bump my head against a wall,
              Because he ain’t a pugilist at all.
            I’ll bet he never even seen a ring;
              He’s just an author that is writin’ books:
            That shows that you can never tell a thing
              About how great a man is by his looks.




                                  XIV.


            I WISH some day there’d be a lawyer come
            And say I’d got a fortune left by some
              Rich relative I didn’t know I had;
              The ones that’s kiddin’ now would soon be sad,
            You’d see old Morton lookin’ pretty glum.
              I’d buy this place and fire him so quick
              The tumble that he got would make him sick;
            And then I’d get the bridal-chamber key,
             And take the little operator there,
            And ask her how she’d like to marry me
             And let some other girl hold down her chair.

            I wish my hair would get to turnin’ gray,
            And ma would suddenly find out some day
              That I was ten years older than she thunk,
              And I would grow six inches while you wunk.
            But what’s the use of wishin’, anyway?
              Mike says nobody ever caught a fish
              By simply settin’ down somewhere to wish;
            He claims if all our wishes would come true
              We’d none of us be happy any more,
            Fer every day we’d all be feelin’ blue
              Because we wished fool things the day before.




                                  XV.


           THE news-stand lady’s got a steady beau;
           He comes each night at six o’clock or so,
             And when they leave he takes her by the arm,
             As though he thought she might get into harm,
           Or slip on something smooth, or stub her toe.
             Mike says he’d let his mother get along
             Without an arm to hang to that was strong,
           And never seem to think she might get hurt
             By bein’ bumped, and never fret at all
           If she would put her foot down in the dirt,
             And never be afraid that she would fall.

           I wonder why a fellow’s mother tries
           To make you think that every man that’s wise
             Steers clear of all the girls? I wonder why
             A fellow’s mother thinks they’re mean and sly
           And hardly fit to look you in the eyes?
             Ma thinks the operator here has planned
             To hook the first poor chap that she can land;
           And one night, when I got to tellin’ ma
             How sweet she was—I mean the operator—
           The more I tried to praise her up I saw
             The more it kind of seemed to make ma hate ’er.

           Ma says they’re all a schemin’ lot, who fix
           Themselves up nice to fool the Toms and Dicks
             And Harrys that don’t know enough to run:
             You’d think, to hear her talk, that all they done
           Was try to catch the boys by foxy tricks.
             I don’t see why ma runs them down that way;
             She used to be a girl herself, one day.
           Mike says that when a woman’s married, though,
             She never wants the rest that ain’t been took
           To ever stand a chance or have a show
             To ever get a nibble at the hook.




                                  XVI.


            THE other day we had excitement here;
              The news-stand caught afire, and I thought
              I’d be heroic Johnny-on-the-spot;
            I grabbed the operator, yellin’: “Dear,
            I’m here to save your life, so never fear.”
              But just about that time I felt a swat,
              And there was lots of things that I fergot
            While Morton dragged me with him by the ear.

            They’d doused the blaze before it got a start,
              And I’d fergot our fire-drill, you see,
              That’s what made Morton come and jump on me—
            He nearly tore my head and ear apart—
            That Alexander’s too dumnation smart.
              They’re all a-kiddin’ me fer what I done,
              And she looks on and seems to think it’s fun
            Confound it! that’s What nearly breaks my heart.




                                 XVII.


          I’M sorry fer the poor old boy we’ve got
            In seven-sixty-six; he’s nearly due
            To ask St. Peter to please let him through.
          His wife’s a beaut and young, and mebby what
          She’s doin’ right along is hope he’ll not
            Be yanked away and planted in the sod
            With her left here to fasten to his wad—
          If that’s your guess, though, take another shot.

          She won’t allow him to get out of bed,
            But once when I went up because she’d rung
            The first thing that I knew he up and flung
          The quilts and things across the room and said
          She’d hid his shirt and pants—that’s on the dead—
            And then, before she’d caught her breath, he sprung
            Up like a wild man and got in among
          Her trunks and looked up pitiful and pled.

          “I want my pants,” he says, “I’ll die unless
            You let me out to get some exercise.”
            She shook her head and looked him in the eyes
          And told me it was second childishness
          And that he wasn’t strong enough to dress—
            Then out he jumped and started fer the door,
            With nothin’ but his nightshirt on, and swore
          He’d run away—he meant it, too, I guess.

          But he was old and slow and she was spry,
            And when he started to get out she caught
            A pitcherful of water up and got
          Around in front of me and let it fly.
          She turned and give a sorry little sigh
            When he’d went back to bed, and said a lot
            Of things about how sad she’d be and not
          Know how to bear the shock if he would die.


[Illustration]


               When I get old and wrinkled up and gray
                 I want my wife to be as old as me:
                 Then she’ll not be ashamed if people see
               Us out together, and they’ll never say
               They wonder what she cost me, anyway.
                 I’d hate to think that every time when we
                 Went anywhere the men would wink and she
               Had sad clo’s to jump into any day.




                                 XVIII.


            IT’S up to me to kick myself some more:
              The daisy that is operatin’ here
              Has been another fellow’s wife a year,
            And he’s a clerk in some department store.
            The happy thoughts I used to think before
              Are busted up forever. I appear
              To always land somewhere back in the rear—
            The sound of telegraphin’ makes me sore.

            I hope I’ll have a million bucks some day
              And be the landlord here, and she will set
              There, in the corner, telegraphin’ yet;
            And when I pass she’ll look at me and say
            All to herself she wished she knew some way
              To not be married, and I’d stop and get
              A blank sometimes, just so’s to make her fret
            When she would count the dimun’s I’d display.

            And mebby when I stood there near her, then,
              And had broad shoulders, and was six feet high,
              Her lips would tremble and she’d give a sigh
            And nibble at her pencil or her pen,
            And we would both be feelin’ sad, and when
              She seen I loved her she’d begin to cry
              Because she hadn’t waited, and then I—
            Oh, rats! There’s Morton yellin’ “Front” agen.




                                  XIX.


                IF yesterday would come to-morrow
                There wouldn’t hardly be no sorrow.

                For then we’d have another try
                At chances that we let go by.

                Instead of givin’ luck the blame
                We’d grab the good things when they came.

                We’d take the best and leave the worst
                If all the days came hind-end first.

                The fools that stand and wonder now
                Would know just when to act and how.

                If yesterday would come agen
                We’d not say “if” so often then.

                We’d turn the merry face to sorrow
                If yesterday would come to-morrow.




------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             By S. E. KISER

                     Love Sonnets of an Office Boy

               WITH TWELVE PICTURES BY JOHN T. MCCUTCHEON

                                   ❦

“A joy forever.”—New York Sun.

“Full of fun.”—Philadelphia Telegraph.

“Irresistibly funny.”—Minneapolis Times.

“All well done and exquisitely funny.”—The Journalist.

“Its fun is fairly side-splitting.”—Indianapolis Sentinel.

“If you have ever been a boy, read this book.”—Talent.

“Pure humor and actual tenderness.”—Louisville Courier-Journal.

“These sonnets will prove a source of delight to all people with a true
sense of humor.”—Judge.

“There is in each and every one of these sonnets a screamingly funny
office-boy-like turn of phrase.”—New York Mail and Express.

                                   ❦

                            Price, 50 cents.

                                   ❦

                      FORBES & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS
                            Box 664, CHICAGO




------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             By S. E. KISER

                        Ballads of the Busy Days


ONE hundred poems representing the best work of this well-known poet.
Many of them are humorous, some have a delicate vein of pathos that
makes a sure appeal to the heart, and all possess that charming human
quality which has made Mr. Kiser’s verses widely popular.

                                   ❦

“Mr. Kiser’s work is too well known to need praise. He is a popular
favorite.”—Minneapolis Times.

“His many varieties of verse have made him a friend of every lover of
poetry.”—Columbus Press.

“Mr. Kiser has that rare original wit that can turn the most commonplace
things to laughable account.”—Dallas News.

“Few or none of the magazine poets excel Mr. Kiser in touching the chord
of human sympathy.”—The Argonaut, San Francisco.

                                   ❦

    Tastefully printed and bound in an artistic, decorated cover, 12mo,
    cloth, gilt top, 224 pages. Price, $1.25.

                                   ❦

                      FORBES & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS
                            Box 664, CHICAGO


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                       Now in Thirtieth Thousand

                            BEN KING’S VERSE

                  If I Should Die To-Night

                  If I should die to-night
            And you should come to my cold corpse and say,
            Weeping and heartsick o’er my lifeless clay—
                  If I should die to-night
            And you should come in deepest grief and woe
            And say, “Here’s that ten dollars that I owe”—
                  I might arise in my large white cravat
                  And say, “What’s that?”

                  If I should die to-night
            And you should come to my cold corpse and kneel,
            Clasping my bier to show the grief you feel—
                  I say, if I should die to-night
            And you should come to me, and there and then
            Just even hint ’bout payin’ me that ten,
                  I might arise the while;
                  But I’d drop dead again.
                            (From “Ben King’s Verse”)


“‘Ben King’s Verse’ will be appreciated by all who enjoy good
things.”—John Kendrick Bangs.

“Ben King’s verses may be recommended to those suffering from
melancholy.”—The Chicago Daily News.

“Lovers of real poetry and of quaint, whimsical humor will treasure ‘Ben
King’s Verse’ as a volume which can be read and re-read with pleasure, a
companion for all moods and times.”—The Journalist (New York).

               Beautifully made. 292 pages. Price, $1.25.

                      FORBES & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS
                            Box 664, CHICAGO




------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’ Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was corrected.
    ○ Unbalanced quotation marks were left as the author intended.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.





End of Project Gutenberg's Thrills of a Bell Boy, by Samuel Ellsworth Kiser

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THRILLS OF A BELL BOY ***

***** This file should be named 56783-0.txt or 56783-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/7/8/56783/

Produced by ellinora,, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

